Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) | The Administration for Children and Families An official website of the United States government 
Here’s how you know 
Here’s how you know 

Official websites use .gov 
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. 

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. 

Click Here to Report Suspected Child Care Fraud 

Branding Bar Menu 
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 
Administration for Children & Families 
Select an ACF Office Administration for Native Americans (ANA) 
Administration on Children, Youth, and Families (ACYF) 
Children's Bureau (CB) 
Early Childhood Development (ECD) 
Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) 
Office of Child Care (OCC) 
Office of Child Support Enforcement (OCSE) 
Office of Community Services (OCS) 
Office of Family Assistance (OFA) 
Office of Family Violence and Prevention Services (OFVPS) 
Office of Head Start (OHS) 
Office of Human Services Emergency Preparedness and Response (OHSEPR) 
Office of Legislative Affairs and Budget (OLAB) 
Office of Planning, Research & Evaluation (OPRE) 
Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) 
Office of Regional Operations (ORO) 
Office on Trafficking in Persons (OTIP) 
Public Assistance Reporting Information System (PARIS) 
Unaccompanied Alien Children Office of the Ombuds (UACOO) 

Office of Community Services 
An Office of the Administration for Children & Families 

Search this site 
Apply 

Click to expand menu 

Click to expand search 

(For Mobile) OCS - Site Search 
Search this site 
Apply 

OCS - Main Navigation 
About Expand 
What We Do 

Leadership 

Announcements 

OCS Fact Sheet 

Get Help 

Programs Expand 
Affordable Housing and Supportive Services Demonstration 

Community Economic Development (CED) 

Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) 

Diaper Distribution Demonstration & Research Pilot 

Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) 

Low Income Household Water Assistance Program (LIHWAP) 

Medical-Legal Partnerships Plus (MLP+) 

Rural Community Development Program (RCD) 

Social Services Block Grant Program (SSBG) 

Grant Information 

Videos 

Resources 

Home 
Office of Community Services (OCS) 
OCS Programs 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) 
PRINT 

OCS - Left Navigation 
Programs 
Affordable Housing and Supportive Services Demonstration 
Community Economic Development (CED) 
Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) 
Diaper Distribution Demonstration & Research Pilot 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) 
Low Income Household Water Assistance Program (LIHWAP) 
Medical-Legal Partnerships Plus (MLP+) 
Rural Community Development Program (RCD) 
Social Services Block Grant Program (SSBG) 

Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) 

Listen 

Current as of: May 7, 2025 
The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) helps keep families safe and healthy through initiatives that assist families with energy costs. LIHEAP provides federally funded assistance to reduce the costs associated with home energy bills, energy crises, weatherization, and minor energy-related home repairs. LIHEAP can help you stay warm in the winter and cool in the summer through programs that reduce the risk of health and safety problems that arise from unsafe heating and cooling situations and practices. 

This site provides information on all federal LIHEAP websites. This site provides information about how grant recipients administer LIHEAP. 

Follow @OCS_ACFgov on X! 

LIHEAP Heating Assistance 
LIHEAP funds can help households stay safe and warm in the winter by providing assistance with home heating bills, preventing energy shutoffs, reconnecting services, making homes more energy efficient, and repairing or replacing heating equipment. The LIHEAP Toolkit provides outreach materials to help partners, stakeholders, and grant recipients reach eligible households. 

Need Help Finding Assistance? 
For information on how to apply for energy assistance, please visit Energyhelp.us . This site is available in English, Spanish, Traditional Chinese, and Simplified Chinese. Video information and spotlights are available in English, Spanish, and Mandarin. You may also contact the National Energy Assistance Referral (NEAR) number at 1-866-674-6327. 

Additional Resources 
LIHEAP provides additional resources on the LIHEAP Data Dashboard ; this site provides information on LIHEAP’s impact for the current fiscal year. It includes funding allocations, Model Plan information and Quarterly Report updates. 

OCS also provides the Disaster Flexibilities Hub , an information management tool that visually tracks and displays key data, guidance, and resources on declared disasters, disaster preparedness efforts, and the flexibilities built into OCS’ block grant programs, including LIHEAP. 

Notice: The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) does not provide direct grants to individuals; LIHEAP does not charge a fee for receiving a benefit. If you receive a message offering you a LIHEAP grant or requesting a fee, please contact the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Fraud Hotline at 1-800-447-8477. For more information, please visit the Grant Fraud and Scams . 

Expand All 
Fact Sheet 

Expand 

Funding Releases 

Expand 

Grant Recipient Resources 

Expand 

Grant Recipients Deadlines 
Grant Recipients State, Territory and Tribal Plans 
Eligibility Criteria 
Frequently Asked Questions 
Forms and Funding Applications 
Performance Management 
LIHEAP Data Dashboard 
Funding Allocations 
LIHEAP Grant Recipient Resource Guide 
Supplemental (PDF) 
LIHEAP Regional Call Calendar 

Policies and Guidance 

Expand 

Action Transmittals Dear Colleague Notices Information Memorandas 

Reports to Congress 

Expand 

Home Energy Notebooks 

Expand 

Laws and Regulations 

Expand 

Special Topics 

Expand 

Training Resources 

Expand 

Contacts 

Expand 

HHS, Administration for Children and Families Office of Community Services, Division of Energy Assistance Mary E. Switzer Building, 5th Floor West 330 C Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20201 
Division of Energy Assistance Federal Contact State and Territory Grant Recipient Contacts Tribal Grant Recipient Contacts 

You may visit www.EnergyHelp.us for additional information on where and how to apply for the LIHEAP in your area. Or you may call the National Energy Assistance Referral (NEAR) Hotline toll-free at 1-866-674-6327 on weekdays 9:00 am to 7:00 pm (Eastern Time). 
For information regarding the Online Data Collection System (OLDC) or Grant Solutions, please contact the helpdesk at help@grantsolutions.gov or 1-866-577-0771 Monday through Friday except federal holidays from 7:00 am to 8:00 pm (Eastern Time) . 

Language 
English 

Was this page helpful? Yes 

No 

Leave this field blank 

OCS on Twitter 
Follow Us 

OCS - Bottom Navigation 
About 
Get Help 
Programs 
Grant Information 
Videos 
Resources 

Bottom Footer Navigation 
Related Sites HHS.gov 
Grants.gov 
USAJobs.gov 
USA.gov 

Helpful Links Report Fraud 
Download Acrobat Reader © 

Policies Accessibility 
No FEAR Act 
 
FOIA 
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Policy 
Disclaimers 

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 330 C Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20201 

ACF on Facebook ACF on Twitter ACF on Instagram ACF on Flickr ACF YouTube Channel